# Vicente Gonzalez-Ruiz

## Biography

Dr. Vicente González-Ruiz is associate professor in the Informatics
Department of the University of Almería. He received an M.Sc. degree
in computer science from the University of Granada in 1992, and a
Ph.D. degree in computer science from the University of Almería in
2000. He is a member of the [Supercomputing-Algorithms Research
Group](https://www.hpca.ual.es/) of the University of Almería.

Dr. González-Ruiz has experience in image and video coding and
transmision, contributing to open source projects such as the P2PSP
protocol (https://es.wikipedia.org /wiki/P2PSP), the Google Summer of
Code program, the ESA Summer of Code in Space program, and the
JHelioviewer project (https://www.jhelioviewer.org/). He has been
working also in signal processing applications, specifically in
interpolation and denoising algorithms used in microscopy. He is also
contributing to the development of AI applications designed to help
disabled people, such as detecting falls of improving the interaction
of user in smart environments. He works also experience in the
development of sofware used in astronomical centers.

Apart from his interaction with researches of the
Supercomputación-Algoritmos research group, Dr. González-Ruiz has
collaborated with the CSIC in the field of image transmission and
denoising, with the ESA in the field of image coding and transmission
(JHelioviewer project), and with the Centro Astronómico de Calar Alto
(Almería) in the field of image acquisition and processing, among
other universities and research centers.

As it can be ckecked in its [Curriculum
Vitae](https://vicente-gonzalez-ruiz.github.io/ridiculum/),
Dr. González Ruiz as co-authored at least 100 research papers, of
which at least 19 has been published in JCR-indexed journals. He has
participated in at least 27 reseach projects, being the IP in at least
one of them. He has participated in at leas 11 transference
open-projects, being the IP in at least 9 of them. He has participated
in at least 5 contracts, 3 as IP. He is the IP of the Unidad de
Supercomputación, Procesamiento de Imagen y Nanotomografía (USPIN). He
has supervised 5 PhD thesis and is supervising another 5.

As a teacher, Dr. González-Ruiz has more then 30 years of experience
at the UAL in more than 10 different subjects and have supervised more
than 30 final degree projects.

